This programme contains some violent
scenes from the start and throughout.
SHE SCREAMS
90831.
CAR HORN BEEPS
908...
TYRES SCREECH
-Watch where you're going!
-Sorry. -Moron!
CAR HORN BEEPS
TYRES SCREECH
Oh. good. You got my text.
Yes. Thank you.
-All right?
-Yeah.
-Is that a stake?
-Well. that. DC Akbari. is the murder weapon.
-A rather unusual one.
-That's pierced his ribcage.
I mean. that would require
colossal strength.
-Yeah.
-He's weirdly pale. isn't he?
A sign of tissue hypoperfusion.
The body must have lost
a lot of blood.
-No traces of it. though.
-Well. maybe he was moved.
Dr Parsons...
Yes. These are rather
strange incisions.
They've likely sliced through
the carotid artery.
Jesus. They look like tooth marks.
Anyone got any garlic for Will?!
Looks like the victim's camera.
Half the film has been used.
-We'll get it developed ASAP.
-Good. Cheers. mate.
-Hi.
-Hey.
I was hoping I'd see you.
Right.
Erm...
How was your training course?
Good.
But. you know.
three months too long.
I would rather have been here.
Cool. I guess you're
a forensic genius now. though.
Oh. totally.
I can analyse tyre marks in seconds!
Although. I still can't
keep a cactus alive.
-Elliot. we're loading up.
-OK. Sure.
-Erm...
-Bye.
-See ya.
-Yeah.
-What is that?
-No idea.
So what have we got?
The victim's a Jonathan Starper.
He's a rising star
in the photography world.
Any more detail than that?
I'd say his main influence
is a romantic Gothic.
Definitely picking up
on the Pre-Raphaelites.
I meant any more detail
on the victim. DC Akbari?
-Oh. I see. Erm...
-He was preparing for an upcoming exhibition. sir.
It's had a lot of buzz around it.
I could only find instant coffee.
How do you people live like this?!
DI Monroe?
-Call me Frankie.
-DCI Calvin Baxter.
We weren't expecting you
until next week.
Oh. erm. yeah. Plans changed.
I didn't fancy sticking around
Manchester another week.
so here I am.
So. erm. DI Monroe
is DI Metcalf's replacement.
Erm...
...replacement?
No. Sorry. sir.
DI Metcalf's only on leave.
Yeah. she... She was. but she
decided to take a job in Glasgow.
She can't do that.
She didn't... What?
I know you.
You make a habit of trying
to kill motorcyclists. do you?
Permanently plugged
into your headphones.
-Bloody Gen Z.
-Erm... They're noise cancelling.
Yeah. Don't cancel your eyes.
though. do they? Work experience?
Uh. no. This is Patience Evans
from Criminal Records.
Oh.
Right. What's going on here. then?
Suspected homicide.
Came in last night.
-Bit of a strange one. this one.
-Yeah. that's a stake.
And the victim was found
with two bite marks in his neck
and a serious loss of blood.
-Really? - Mm.
-Sorry DI Monroe. I'm not going to be able to show you around this morning.
-I've got to have a public relations meeting.
-Sounds fun.
Like it's not enough to endure
a station refurb.
The Chief Constable now thinks we
should improve our image with the public.
Maybe don't tell them
we're hunting vampires. sir!
These photos are creepy as hell.
aren't they?
I knew I recognised the name
Jonathan Starper.
He was involved in a scooter
accident about four months ago.
How old are you?
23.
MESSAGE ALERT
Ma'am. Marina Murray. the woman who discovered
the body. she's in the interview room.
Oh. right. Let's go and see which
member of the Adams family pitched up now.
This way.
Erm...
Sorry. No. erm.
the victim's accident.
it is interesting because...
Is there any chance of a proper
coffee? A flat white will do.
-Erm... I mean. the roasting process of coffee produces a known carcinogen...
-Oh. good.
Right. So you turned up at Monk Bar
Tower in the middle of the night
just to get Jonathan to go home?
-Mm-hm. - Do you do that with all your clients?
-No. Erm...
But I've been his agent
for 15 years.
And. erm. I knew him.
Whenever there's an exhibition.
he burns himself out.
Can you think of anyone
that might want to kill him?
No. of course not.
He was... He was wonderful.
Well. was there anyone
he had bad relations with?
-No.
-Anything he was worried about?
Erm...
He had seemed a little
out of sorts recently.
but I think that was
just the exhibition.
I'm sorry I can't be more help.
No. Thank you for coming in.
Miss Murray.
If you do remember anything else...
...give us a call.
OK. Thank you.
Yeah. she was shagging him.
-How do you know that?
-Body language.
And my gut. which is also telling me
I need a bacon sandwich.
-There's a canteen.
-No need.
I stopped at a farm shop
this morning.
Locally sourced. maple cured.
Delish.
Great. thanks.
Can I get you to sign out?
Thanks.
-Oh. hi.
-Hi.
I'm just going to go grab some
lunch. You want to come with?
Erm. I brought a salad from home.
Well. you could come sit with me?
Outside food's not permitted
inside the canteen.
Oh.
Yeah. well. I'll. erm...
-...see you later.
-Yeah.
- LIFT:
- Door opening.
-Are you kidding?
-No. DI Monroe. I don't kid.
-Not one drop of blood left in the body?
-Correct.
And what's also strange
is that the incision marks
in his neck were made after death.
Which means without
the heart beating.
the victim couldn't have bled out
without some help...
...from gravity.
-So he was...
-Probably strung up like a pig.
You're joking?
Still deadly serious. DI Monroe.
There was a pulley system in
the tower that could have been used
and forensics found blood traces.
The question is.
why would anybody want to drain
someone of all their blood?
SHE KNOCKS ON DOOR
Excuse me. I've found something.
The victim was involved in a scooter
accident about four months ago.
It was a hit-and-run.
The car was reported stolen and been connected to
a ring of car thefts operating out of a garage.
According to Companies House
that's now closed down.
but the owner. Kevin Gill.
works at York Racecourse.
Sorry. why are you talking so fast?
Because otherwise you'd walk off
and order another coffee.
OK. Well. thanks for this.
Next time. put it in an email.
You can go.
-Yeah. bring him in.
-Sure.
Erm... Patience is autistic.
Right? And?
Well. maybe you could. you know.
go a bit easy on her.
Look. I'm all for inclusivity.
but I don't have time
to hold anyone's hand just
because they want to play police.
She's been an amazing asset to the team
and her and DI Metcalf were really close.
She has a brilliant mind.
She's helped us crack so many cases.
Well. it seems to me that if you two were
doing your job properly. she wouldn't have to.
BELL RINGS
Got your letter then?
Thought you might like a cup of tea.
What's happened?
She isn't coming back.
Alfie's dad has found
a job in Glasgow and...
...they've got a good school for him.
so they've all moved.
Well. I guess...
I guess it's good for Alfie.
What else did she say?
She says that she misses me and...
And she wants me to come and visit.
Yeah. she's very fond of you.
-Yeah. Unlike DI Monroe.
-Who's that?
Her replacement. And...
...she wants me off all of the cases.
Well. she sounds like a fool then.
Oh. she's not a fool.
She's just not Detective Bea
Yeah. I know.
She really got you. didn't she?
How are you going on
with these numbers? Any luck?
No.
I just...
I don't understand why my mother
left me something so unfathomable.
Because it's not unfathomable.
Not for you.
And your mother knew that.
She's left you a treasure hunt.
God. it's stuffy in here.
They always overheat these rooms.
I like your tattoo. Kevin.
Your gang. is it?
No. Not any more.
-What does it mean?
-It's a code of honour.
What kind of code of honour
endorses kneecapping. Kevin.
-I did my time for that.
-Cutting out people's tongues?
Do you like violence. Kevin?
Well. when somebody lets you down...
...you have to send a message.
And were you sending a message to Jonathan
Starper when you ran his scooter off the road?
Sorry that got thrown out.
See. there was a lack of evidence.
-Did he owe you money?
-I've never even met the bloke.
I've been through all this.
You had nothing on me then. you've
got nothing on me now. have you?
-Do you want a fat rascal!
-What?
They're a York speciality.
-I drove across town this morning to get fresh.
-No. thanks.
-How can you eat in here?
-I can eat anywhere.
No eating in the mortuary.
Put it away. please.
RH null.
-Heard of it?
-No.
The victim was one of only
40 to 50 in the world
to have an RH null blood type.
Did you just say RH null?
-Yeah. -Yeah. golden blood?
-Exactly.
It's compatible with all blood types.
so those with it are universal donors.
But it also means they can
only receive golden blood.
So it's both a gift and a curse.
I believe it's also used
in private clinics.
It's sort of an anti-aging remedy.
A vampire cure.
But. I mean. it's said to reverse
the effects of...
heart disease. Alzheimer's
and even cancer.
-Sounds great.
-Well. completely unverified.
I'm sure it's not cheap.
Sorry. What are you doing here?
-Erm... Sorry. I thought you knew...
-I called her. Is there a problem?
No. Except she's not
a police officer.
and she's got no business
being on an investigation.
DI Metcalf always included Patience.
Right. OK. Thank you. headphones.
I think we can take it from here.
Right. erm...
It looks like golden blood could have
been Jonathan Starper's golden goose.
The UK does seem to have hardline
regulations when it comes to blood banks.
We found one of Patience's vampire
clinics in St Petersburg.
They target millionaires and rock
stars. claim it's a miracle cure.
Blood transfusion. 100.000 euros!
You've got to be kidding!
We've found proof that the
victim's been to St Petersburg.
His hotel and tickets show up
on his credit card statements
and when I spoke to the clinic.
they were able to identify Jonathan.
-Turns out he weren't there alone.
-Oh. yeah?
This was captured in the lift.
Good work!
Bring that lying git back in.
Please. have a seat. Mr Gill.
Well. I must say.
it's lovely to be back.
You've got a bald spot coming.
OK. So what? I knew him.
More than that.
You went on holiday with him.
-What do you want?
-I want the truth.
He owed you money. right?
-I helped him out.
-By letting him build up gambling debts?
And then when he couldn't pay up. you tried to
sell his blood to a clinic in St Petersburg.
The whole thing was a scam.
They were passing off people
with any old blood.
Believe me.
they had no interest in us.
They're the criminals. I don't
know why you're wasting my time.
Jonathan Starper's bank account
shows that he sent you 125 grand.
Where'd he get that from?
I wish I knew.
Because he still owes me
the other half.
I mean. all we've really got
is illegal gambling debts
and a bro-road trip to Russia.
And I don't believe he knows
where the victim got the 125 grand.
I agree. Looks like it's a dead end.
MOBILE PHONE RINGS
I need to take this.
Who's that? His girlfriend?
Cheeky work affair?
I don't need to know anything
about my team's private lives.
I. erm...
I think you need to hear this.
Hiya.
Hi. I was at the library. Erm...
Sorry. I was...
I was just saying I was
at the library. and I was...
I was just thinking we've been
looking at this from the wrong angle.
So what's all this about finding
the murder weapon?
Well. I found that in the bin.
There's blood on the seat
and one of the legs is missing.
And so it's just that we thought
it would require colossal strength
for it to pierce the ribcage.
but it didn't.
He must have fallen from...
From here.
Dr Parsons did say that
the victim didn't die instantly.
And this definitely could have
broken his fall.
Well. that's what...
that's what I thought.
I mean. he must have fallen
from here and then
pulled himself out of the skip
and gone to look for help.
And then what. he... drags himself
over there before collapsing?
So how did all this kick off?
It could have been an accident.
After a bit of rain.
it'd be slippery up here.
Yeah. but then he was strung up
and drained of all his blood.
-So I think we can rule out bad luck.
-I think we need to verify.
No...
This isn't gonna work.
-Sorry. what do you mean?
-I mean.
your naivety makes you
more dangerous than helpful.
I mean that I trained for years
and learnt things
like how not to move evidence
so you don't compromise
an investigation.
They collect the rubbish
on the Monday. so I... I...
I mean. don't mistake me
for DI Metcalf.
Just go.
So. er. we're about to start anyway.
If you want to take your seats.
Hope everybody's good.
So...
Does anyone have a thought about
what the theme
of today's meeting should be?
Yeah. Billy. I have. Iguanas.
-Or sex.
-When your iguana has sex.
Or. how about subtext? Yeah?
Because. er. you know.
neurotypicals don't always say
what they actually mean.
So then how are you supposed to know
what they mean?
Well. it's like a set of codes.
isn't it?
Like body language or tone of voice
or actions rather than words.
How would they maybe act if they...
...if they liked you?
My boyfriend sent me flowers
with a card.
With more flowers on it.
I'm allergic to flowers.
I clean my neighbour's bath.
Not because I'm in love with her.
She's 83.
But I like her.
Right. yeah.
I mean. these are all good signs
that someone likes you.
or maybe even fancies you.
But NT behaviour can be
a bit more nuanced than that.
So they might smile at you
for a long time.
or hold eye contact with you.
or they might just really enjoy
spending time with you.
Weirdly.
I'm not allergic to bluebells.
-Explain that.
-Can't.
Olivia Brams. RH null.
Five-year-old born
with sickle cell disease
and needs regular blood
transfusions.
She's recently had a bone marrow
transplant - and check the date.
The op was only a few hours
after Jonathan died.
It almost didn't happen. They were
struggling to find enough blood.
Apparently you need loads
on standby.
But at the last minute.
an anonymous donation came through.
Saving a little girl's life?
Sounds like a strong motive
for killing a man
and draining his blood.
Have you got an address?
-Do you want me to check it out. boss?
-Oh. no. Will can do it.
-You've got some nerve.
-Mr Brams. please...
After what we've been through?
-We've waited years for Olivia's op.
-Sorry. Mr Brams...
And now she's finally OK.
you turn up accusing us of stealing
the blood of a man we've never met?
Er...
Yeah. come in.
Oh. yeah. My ex used to say
it looked like
a rabid badger
had broken into my flat.
Which is why
I slept with his brother.
OK...
You don't know if I'm joking.
do you?
-Is that the Brams' bank statement?
-Yeah.
It looks like they withdrew
increasingly large cash amounts
over the last four months.
Yeah.
So maybe our victim
was into extortion.
For Olivia's transfusions? God.
he'd have had them over a barrel.
-What a dick.
-PHONE RINGS
Ah. It's Will.
Will. you're on speaker.
Ma'am. Well. the chat
didn't go brilliantly.
But I've been keeping a watch.
and I've just seen Jimmy Brams
leave his flat carrying a trunk.
I'll send you a photo.
Mmm.
Helsing and Co.
Thanks. Will. Good work.
Yeah. just keep following him.
see where he goes.
Yep. found them.
It's a Dutch company.
Helsing and Co Medical.
They do blood cell separators
for transfusions
in sickle cell patients.
So they were set up
for home transfusions.
It looks like we were right.
Olivia's parents were getting
Jonathan's blood on the sly.
- KNOCKING
- Jessica?
Open up. It's the police.
I'm sorry. you can't just barge
in here...
Ah. Mr Brams.
No. no. no. please.
please have a seat.
Yeah.
Nice to meet you. finally.
Well. this is cosy. isn't it?
Not looking good. though. is it?
-What are you doing?
-I was just wondering what's for dinner.
Don't...
Ah.
I'd say there's about. what?
Five litres here?
He kept hiking up the price.
It was breaking us.
And then you found
a bone marrow donor.
Yeah. and that was a godsend.
But for the op.
we need to double the usual blood.
So what happened the night of
the operation?
I called Jonathan.
And he wanted four times the price.
£100.000. I didn't have it.
My daughter was gonna die.
So we went to see him. to beg him.
And he said no?
-So you killed him.
-No.
When we turned up.
he was already... dead.
-Already?
-Yes.
Collapsed.
With that thing in his chest.
We just needed the blood.
I saw a pulley on the ceiling.
So we got him elevated.
Drained the blood
through an incision.
-That was grim.
-Yeah.
Very few people surprise me.
but those two...
Oof.
I think they're telling the truth.
though. Their stories match.
Mm. I don't think either of them
are capable of murder.
No. No...
I'm gonna have to book them.
I don't know what for. though.
I mean. it's a new one on me.
but they won't get away with it.
PHONE CHIMES
Victim's photos are back
from the lab.
-Shall we?
-Yeah.
-Ain't that the agent?
I don't think
she was just shagging him.
I think she was in love with him.
I think we need to rethink this.
Find out everything you can
about Marina Murray.
All right. cool.
Thanks for coming down.
This shouldn't take very long.
We're hoping you can help us
identify someone.
Um. your firm said
you dropped someone off
at Monk Bar Tower at the weekend?
Yeah. I pick up a lot of fares.
you know. that was Saturday.
-Weekends. you know. they're full-on.
-Look again. please?
Yeah. maybe. I don't know.
I don't recognise her face.
but I remember she was chewing gum.
It stunk.
-What did it. uh... What did it smell of?
-Pineapples.
I hate bloody pineapples.
Mmm.
TAKES PHOTO
CAR SCREECHES TO HALT NEARBY
POUNDS HEAVILY ON DOOR
Time for you to pay up.
you stupid bitch!
DOOR SLAMS
SCREAMING AND SHOUTING
FROM INSIDE
PHONE RINGS
Well. go on. then. answer it.
Jesus Christ. where is she?
I think... I think...
I think that's Marina's place.
-I know. I know the way. I know the way.
-OK. let's go.
AGGRESSIVE SHOUTING
SCREAMING
Ow. ow. ow!
Get off me!
No!
No. no. no. no. no. help!
Help me! Somebody please help me!
Help me!
CAR SPEEDS AWAY
SIREN APPROACHES
-In the back. -On it.
-Check the garden.
Patience?
In the back garden. ma'am!
SIGHS HEAVILY
-Patience?
-They left.
He took her. He took her.
-Are you hurt? -No.
-Are you all right? Are you sure?
-Take her back to the station.
-Of course.
-You had your chance.
-Oh. please... -Come on. Shut up!
BRAKES SQUEAL
HORSES NEIGH
Stop! Police!
Kevin. stop there! Stop!
GROANS
Get up.
Oi. oi. oi... Calm down. Calm down!
I'm gonna need you to put
the needle down. Kevin. all right?
I'm getting too old for this.
All right. all right.
Marina? Marina...
Marina? Marina.
That's it. that's it.
Nice and slow. Nice and slow.
I went there to...
...to ask him to marry me.
I can't believe I was so stupid.
Not stupid.
You were in love.
He didn't even want me
to be his agent any more.
God. I'm so...
You know.
he'd have been nothing without me.
I gave him his career.
He'd been using me.
I just...
I lashed out.
I wanted him to see
how much he'd hurt me.
ECHOING ARGUMENT
Don't you understand?
You're nothing without me.
You are nothing without me!
CRASH
I never meant for him to die.
I never...
But then all night.
I kept picturing him lying there.
I didn't even know if he was dead.
So you went back.
When I got there. he was...
He was...
I loved him.
I know.
I loved him so much.
Marina Murray. I am arresting you
for the murder of Jonathan Starper.
Well. she knows what she's doing.
You do not have to say anything.
but it may harm your defence...
She's going to ruffle
some feathers. though.
MARINA CRIES
I'm listening.
I...
I. I...
I was just trying to get you proof.
Um...
And confirm that it was
the same chewing gum
and that it was definitely Marina
in the cab.
I just didn't think
that you'd trust me.
And you think I should trust you
now. either of you?
After you lied to me?
I'm sorry. I should have been
straight with you. But. boss...
Patience is an asset.
She found Jessica Shaw
and the murder weapon.
She worked out how Jonathan died.
She linked Marina to the crime.
I can't have people on my team
lying to me.
If you go behind my back again.
I'll fire you.
Get out.
I know Detective Metcalf
thought highly of you.
but I'm not her.
Can you shut the door
behind you. please?
Hi.
Um... I got you a present.
Try not to kill it.
Thanks! I...
I'll try not to.
Um. also. just to be clear.
I do want to spend time with you.
Right.
-Great.
-Yeah. I mean.
I'm going to the library
if you want to join?
-Now?
-Yeah.
Ooh... Why not?
-OK.
-Yeah. Be good to. er... Be good to hang out and chat.
Yeah. well. we can hang out
and chat on the way there.
but you can't talk in the library.
Good point. Yeah.
-Oh. fan of Gothic horror?
-Um. yeah.
-Well. my mum got me into it.
-Oh. nice.
It's a fang...!
90831. The number
that my mum left me.
-The clue. That's a vampire number.
-Never heard of a vampire number.
It's used in computer programming
all the time.
It's basically a composite
natural number
with an even number of digits
that can be factored
into two natural numbers.
each with half the amount of digits
as the original number.
I mean. I knew that.
No. you didn't.
THEY CHUCKLE
Subtitles by Red Bee Media